mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
the American Invitational mathematics
examination or Amy for short is a
qualifying test in America for the
International mathematical Olympiad it's
a three-hour test with 15 questions and
calculators are not allowed every answer
on the test is an integer from 0 to 999
of interest is 1984 Amy problem 3 but
lest you think the problem is outdated
it was also asked in 2019 to 14 year
olds in Sweden in triangle ABC pick a
point P on the interior construct lines
through P that are parallel to the sides
of ABC now these triangles have areas of
4/9 and 49
what is the area of triangle ABC pause
the video if you'd like to give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
so there will be many ways to solve this
problem and if you want to share your
solution method in the comments you can
use this labeling of the diagram I think
this is a little bit of an alphabet soup
so I'm going to explain it visually
because the lines through P are parallel
all triangles are similar to each other
and they're similar to ABC the area of a
triangle is proportional to its side
length squared another way of saying
this is that the square root of the area
is proportional to the side length of
the triangle
the ratio of the areas of these three
triangles is 4 - 9 - 49 because these
triangles are similar to each other the
ratio of their sides will be the square
root of the areas this works out to be 2
- 3 - 7
suppose this side length is 2 times X
because the triangles are similar this
side length will be 3x and this side
length will be 7 X because all sides are
parallel we have parallelograms and
these lengths will be equal to each
other
consequently we can calculate that AC
will have a length that's equal to 12 X
the ratio of the sides between ABC and
this yellow triangle will be 12 - 2
because it's 12 X - 2 x this will
simplify to be 6 to 1 consequently the
ratio of their areas will be 6 squared -
1 squared which works out to be 36 to 1
and now we can calculate the answer the
area of triangle ABC will be 36 times 4
and therefore the answer is 144 thanks
for making mind your decisions one of
the best channels on YouTube as always
thanks for watching and thanks for your
support
[Music]